All right here's example 6 entitled finding the potential first part says find the potential at points
8 through in this figure.
Assume that the potential point is zero zero volts.
So in order to find the potential at any other point.
Well we're going to have to first kind of go across a resistor across batteries.
This is a single loop circuit.
If it's a single loop circuit it means that all of these resistors are in series with each other and
it doesn't matter even though there is a battery here kind of in between the 5 and the one that doesn't
matter because there is only a single branch so the current has to be the same everywhere.
So what is the total equivalent resistance of this series circuit.
You simply have to add them up one plus five plus five plus five plus five plus one plus for what we
get here.
That's two with ten that gives me 14.
I think something's wrong.
That's 10 11 12.
Try that again.
A ship he's 16 ohms.
OK.
So he gets 16 ohms is the equivalent resistance.
And now if I go through well I'm going to add a 12 volt apply the loop now I get plus 12.
I'm going to lump everything together here.
So we have kind of something like this.
We have the equivalent resistor of the batteries that I'm not going to do anything with them.
It's going to leave them as is.
But this here 16 ohms.
This is my 12 volt battery.
This is my four volt battery.
OK.
So if you apply a loop rule to this one is still going around in the clockwise fashion you get plus
12 when I cross the battery over here.
Now I'm going to get a voltage drop equal to 16 multiplied by the current.
And now when I crossed this battery the fordable battery kind of going from the positive to the negative
I'm going to get a voltage drop and that's four volts.
So at the end this here equals zero if I do one complete loop.
So what are we going to get.
We're going to get 16.
I bring that term on the other side.
This is 12 mine four.
That gives me eight.
So the current at the end is simply equal to 0.5 amps.
So that's the current everywhere.
Let's just write that on the diagram.
Equals zero point five.
And that's how you do it.
And the next thing we want to know is now what is the potential at all these points.
Well I'm going to use the fact that I know that it's 0 over here at Point.
And now I'm going to go across so if I start let's start at point E.S. I met some potential which is
zero.
The first thing I cross now is the 12 volt batteries I get plus 12 volts.
The next thing I cross now is a 1 ohm resistor.
Well if I cross a one ohm resistor I get a voltage drop equal to one ohm multiplied by the current the
current is zero point five and that's it.
Now I'm at this point now I go all the way to point A.
So I must be at some voltage at point A.
Now remember the potential hit point.
E that was given in the problem that was zero.
So we don't have to worry about that term.
So what we're left with here is 12 minus 0.5.
So that means that the voltage up Point A is simply equal to eleven point five volts.
And now you keep doing the same thing.
So we start at point A you can start a point.
Again it doesn't matter.
We've already done this first section so we know this point a is eleven point five.
So let's do that over here.
So this is eleven point five.
That's the potential of point A.
And now I'm going to cross a 5 ohm resistor so I get a drop which is equal to 5 multiplied by 0.5 and
that there has to be equal to the potential at point B right here.
So what do we get.
Eleven point five minus five times point five gives me 2.5.
So 11 minus 2.5 should give me 9 volts.
So VB voltage at point B relative to zero over here has Nine volts.
OK there we go.
What about the next one point see.
Again I'm going to go down a five ohm resistor.
Whenever I go down a 5 ohm resistor I just did that point.
I get a voltage drop which is given to 2.5 volts.
So that means I get nine minus 2.5 so the voltage at Point C is nine minus five times zero point five.
She gives me 6.5 volts of voltage at Point C 6.5.
Working my way around the loop over there and the last one may be point D.
All right.
Now pointy is a little trickier.
So point C we just calculated that was 6.5 volts.
So I can write that down the voltage at Point C.
Now I'm going to go toward Point D.
So I first going across a battery and I'm going to get a drop of four volts and I get a drop in this
case.
I'm going from the positive side to the negative side.
And then I cross a one ohm resistor.
If I cross a one ohm resistor I know I get a voltage drop across this one ohm resistor equal to half
a volt so minus another half a volt just did that in the first part and that there has to be equal to
the voltage at Point D.
So to get the voltage at Point C is six point five minus 4.5.
So voltage of point D gives me 2 volts.
So whenever you are asked for the potential at a specific point well what you have to do is you simply
go around.
You don't do a complete loop.
Now you start at a point so you write down the potential at that point and then you move to the other
point.
So when you get to the other point the potential has to be equal to the potential at that point.
All right so this is kind of how you step through and find the potential differences or the potential
at any point on the circuit.
All right so that's it for that one.
Now let's do the energy transfer.
So the energy transfer once you know the current And you know the value of the resistors everywhere
and let me kind of delete all of this stuff.
Now we know the current is 0.5 and that's really all we need.
So for Part B let's calculate the power supplied by the 12 volt battery.
The power supplied by the 12 volt battery is given by the voltage or the battery multiplied by the current
flowing through it.
So this simply gives me 12 multiplied by 0.5.
That should give me six watts
pretty straightforward.
What about now.
What is the power dissipated these resisters Well we can find the total power total power dissipated
by the resistors and just call this it's the power dissipated in the one on plus the power dissipated
by the five ohm Plus the power dissipated in the other five ohm Plus the power dissipated in the other
one ohm and the last one the power dissipated in the forum.
OK.
Now the power dissipated in every resistor there is simply the value of the resistance multiplied by
the current squared.
However the current is the same for each one of those.
Remember the power dissipated in the resistor.
Kind of easy to write it like this.
And the currents the same is 0.5 for each one of those.
The thing that's different is the resistance is different so I can factor out an I squared for each
one of those and I simply have to add all of these up.
So that's one plus five plus five plus one plus for that's simply the equivalent resistance of 16.
So if you get one half squared multiplied by 16 or one half squared gives me a quarter a quarter of
16 gives me four.
So you get four watts.
That's the total energy being dissipated by all these resistors.
All right what about the power associated with this four volt battery.
What do we get.
Well it's the voltage of the battery multiplied by the current flowing through it.
In this case it's four multiplied by a half.
What if we get 2 watts.
All right.
So let's talk about the energy transfers.
So we get this 12 volt battery here which supplies six watts six joules schedule per second of energy
and we get all these resistors here that dissipate 4 watts.
So how does that how do we square this 2 watts over here.
What happens to this 2 watts.
Notice that if you add both of those you're going to get are six.
Right.
And what this means and if you look at the way this battery is set up here basically some energy here
is being dissipated being converted into heat.
And the other parts this two watts is basically energy being stored by this battery or basically charging
up this battery and the rate at which energy is being transferred to Watts.
OK.
So that is the energy transfer in the simple circuit.
Now if the battery was the other way what you would find first you'd find a lot more current and then
all that energy would be dissipated into heat you wouldn't be charging up the battery in that case.
OK.
So you have to be careful when batteries are flipped with respect to a battery that's more powerful
or that has a higher potential difference.
Some of the energy being supplied by the circuit is simply going to be absorbed by that other battery.